# fractal-generation
This repository has code related to the Mandelbrot set. 

The file 'Mandelbrot_interactive.py' makes an interactive plot of the Mandelbrot set, where a right click zooms in and a left click zooms out (as centered on the clicked point). 

The file 'Mandelbrot_animation.py' prodcues an animated PNG titled 'mandelbrot_zoom.png' that zooms into some point on a Mandelbrot plot. If you run the code as is, with the current 'AnimatedFrames' folder in the same directory, the code will quickly generate an animated PNG zooming in to the scale of 2^(-16), centred on the point p = p_re + i*p_im, where i is the imaginary unit, p_re = 0.360240443437614363236 and p_im = -0.641313061064803174860. This is because pre-rendered frames have been placed in the 'AnimatedFrames' folder, as already generated by the code. When pre-rendered frames are already present, the code uses them rather than generating them from scratch. If a deeper zoom is required than what is available from the pre-rendered frames, the old frames will be used up till the point that new frames need to be generated. If you wish to make a new animation from scratch, you will have to manually delete the 'AnimatedFrames' folder first. A new 'AnimatedFrames' folder will then be made on running the code, and you will be able to see the fresh individual frames of animation generate one by one as the code runs.

If you wish to test the animation code, to see that a new animation can indeed be made by zooming into a different point than the one given above, please lower the zoom value on line 122 from "zoom = 2\**16" to something like "zoom = 2\**1". Even at a two times zoom 40 frames will need to be generated, which is not a computationally cheap task. Then try higher zoom values if you are comfortable waiting. Rerunning the code at a higher zoom will take advantage of the previous runs by using the already rendered frames, if you don't delete the 'AnimatedFrame' folder between runs.

Currently, both 'Mandelbrot_interactive.py' and 'Mandelbrot_animation.py' cannot zoom beyond 2^(-45) due to the limited precision of floating point numbers. This might be fixed at a later date.

The animated PNG produced from 'Mandelbrot_animation.py' might not play on all platforms. Opening it on FireFox works the best, though Chrome has animated PNG support as well I believe.
